Add blog spot for Spring native images (#3612)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2023/spring-native/index.md

---

> title: Observe your Spring Native application with OpenTelemetry instrumentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Observe your Spring Native application with OpenTelemetry
```

linkTitle: OTel Spring Native
date: 2023-11-28
author: >-
  [Jean Bisutti](https://github.com/jeanbisutti) (Microsoft)
---

You may know the
[OpenTelemetry Java agent](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/).
However, Java agents are
[not officially supported](https://github.com/oracle/graal/issues/1065) with
GraalVM native images today. This post presents an OpenTelemetry solution to get

> telemetry data with Spring Boot native image applications. ## Instrumentation of
> Spring Boot native image applications - A history of the last months The
> OpenTelemetry contributors have used the existing OpenTelemetry Spring Boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
telemetry data with Spring Boot native image applications. 

## A history of the last months 

The OpenTelemetry contributors have used the existing OpenTelemetry Spring Boot
```

The section title is too long, not only for prettier but also eventually for the TOC, keep it short.

---
title: Observe your Spring Native image application with OpenTelemetry
linkTitle: Spring Native
date: 2023-11-28
author: >-
  [Jean Bisutti](https://github.com/jeanbisutti) (Microsoft)
cSpell:ignore: datasource logback bisutti
---

> You may know the
> [OpenTelemetry Java agent](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/).
> However, Java agents are
> [not officially supported](https://github.com/oracle/graal/issues/1065) with
> GraalVM native images today. This post presents an OpenTelemetry solution to get
> telemetry data with Spring Boot native image applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [OpenTelemetry Java Agent]([/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/)) is a convenient and well-established way to instrument Java applications. However, as of today [it is not possible to use it with GraalVM Native Images](https://github.com/oracle/graal/issues/1065). 

To provide you with an easy and seamless way for Spring Boot Native Image application nevertheless, the OpenTelemetry Java contributors have improved the existing OpenTelemetry Spring Boot Starter to work well with Spring Boot Native Image applications. Read on to learn more!
```

A suggested re-wording of the first paragraph.

> ## A history of the last months
> 
> The OpenTelemetry contributors have used the existing OpenTelemetry Spring Boot
> starter to instrument Spring Boot native image applications with OpenTelemetry
> without byte code instrumentation. They have improved the starter in the last
> months. For example, they have added the OTLP log export. The OpenTelemetry
> starter provides auto-instrumentation for Spring HTTP frameworks. So, by adding
> the starter dependency to your project, you will benefit from the
> instrumentation of HTTP requests:
> 
> ```xml
> <dependencies>
>   <dependency>
>     <groupId>io.opentelemetry.instrumentation</groupId>
>     <artifactId>opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
>     <version>1.32.0-alpha</version>
>   </dependency>
> </dependencies>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Easy instrumention without an agent

The OpenTelemetry Spring Boot Starter allows to add OpenTelemetry to your application without byte code instrumentation. The OpenTelemetry Java contributors have used this to instrument Spring Boot Native Images. To make this experience better, they improved the Starter over the last few months: they have added the OTLP log export and an instrumentation library for Spring HTTP frameworks. 

By adding the starter dependency to your project, you will benefit from those two features out of the box:

```xml
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>io.opentelemetry.instrumentation</groupId>
    <artifactId>opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>1.32.0-alpha</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
```
```

Author: It has changed the meaning. I have reworded in 6fe84919b2d150c110fec3a8dae60d4cfb077ccf What do youn think?

Reviewer: works for me!

In addition to the starter,
[OpenTelemetry instrumentation libraries](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/manual/)
can be used. The OpenTelemetry contributors have improved the JDBC (database)
libraries and logging instrumentation libraries. For the Logback logging
library, the OpenTelemetry developers have added GraalVM configuration to make
the library work in native mode.
[Spring Boot native image applications do not support Log4j2 logging library](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-with-GraalVM).
They have also worked to reduce the configuration to set up the logging and
database instrumentation with the OpenTelemetry Starter. For example, if your
application does not declare DataSource bean, you enable the database by simply
adding two properties in the application.properties file:

```properties
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:otel:h2:mem:db
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.jdbc.OpenTelemetryDriver

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
To get even more visibility, the Starter can be combined with [instrumentation libraries](/docs/instrumentation/java/libraries/). For this purpose, the OpenTelemetry Java contributors have improved the JDBC (database)
libraries and logging instrumentation libraries. For example, for the Logback logging library, they have added GraalVM configuration to make the library work in native mode[^1].

Furthermore, they have worked to reduce the configuration to set up the logging and
database instrumentation with the Starter. For example, if your
application does not declare a DataSource bean, you can enable the database by simply
adding two properties in the `application.properties` file:

```properties
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:otel:h2:mem:db
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.jdbc.OpenTelemetryDriver
```
~~~

> Feel free to read the
> [documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/spring-boot/)
> of the OpenTelemetry starter to learn more. You can also use
> [opentelemetry-java-examples/spring-native](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-examples/tree/main/spring-native)
> to run a Spring Boot native image application and look at the generated HTTP,
> log, and database telemetry data. Note that the OpenTelemetry developers have
> also added GraalVM native automatic tests to the OpenTelemetry Java
> instrumentation project to detect regressions related to the native mode
> execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the
[documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/spring-boot/)
of the OpenTelemetry Spring Boot Starter to learn more. You can use
[opentelemetry-java-examples/spring-native](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-examples/tree/main/spring-native)
to run a Spring Boot Native Image application and look at the generated logs as well as HTTP and database telemetry data. 

Finally, the OpenTelemetry Java contributors have added GraalVM Native automatic tests to the OpenTelemetry Java project to detect regressions related to the native mode execution.
```

> ## What’s next?
> 
> The OpenTelemetry contributors expect to be able to configure the logging and
> database instrumentations automatically. Please share your thoughts and
> experience about the OpenTelemetry starter and Spring Boot native applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What’s next?

The OpenTelemetry Java contributors expect to be able to enable automatic logging and
database instrumentation configuration. 

If you try out the OpenTelemetry Spring Boot Starter, share your thoughts and experiences via [GitHub discussions](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java/discussions) or the [#otel-java](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C014L2KCTE3) [CNCF Slack](https://slack.cncf.io) channel.

[^1]: Spring Boot Native Image applications [do not support Log4j2 logging library](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-with-GraalVM).
```

---
title: Observe your Spring Native Image application with OpenTelemetry
linkTitle: Observe Spring Native

> date: 2023-12-07

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-12-08
```

for Spring HTTP frameworks (updated the last months to make it work with Spring
Boot 3) out of the box:

```xml
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>io.opentelemetry.instrumentation</groupId>
    <artifactId>opentelemetry-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
    <version>1.32.0-alpha</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

To get even more visibility, the Starter can be combined with
[instrumentation libraries](/docs/instrumentation/java/libraries/). For this
purpose, the OpenTelemetry Java contributors have improved the JDBC (database)
libraries and logging instrumentation libraries. For example, for the Logback
logging library, they have added GraalVM configuration to make the library work
in native mode[^1].

Furthermore, they have worked to reduce the configuration to set up the logging
and database instrumentation with the Starter. For example, if your application
does not declare a DataSource bean, you can enable the database by simply adding
two properties in the `application.properties` file:

```properties
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:otel:h2:mem:db
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.jdbc.OpenTelemetryDriver
```

Read the

> [documentation](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/spring-boot/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[documentation](/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/spring-boot/)
```

---
title: Observe your Spring Native image application with OpenTelemetry
linkTitle: Spring Native
date: 2023-11-28
author: >-
  [Jean Bisutti](https://github.com/jeanbisutti) (Microsoft)
cSpell:ignore: datasource logback bisutti
---

The

> [OpenTelemetry Java Agent](<[/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/)>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpenTelemetry Java agent](<[/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/)>)
```

> [OpenTelemetry Java agent](<[/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic/)>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpenTelemetry Java agent](/docs/instrumentation/java/automatic)
```
